Then let's talk about doing some
upfront research, shall we?
So yeah, like I've already said, upfront
research is something that a lot of
people do, they do some kind of discovery
phase at the front of a project.
And that's absolutely great and that's
wonderful if you've got the resources and
the time to do that, but
it's not the only way of doing it.
So what I wanna share with you is
some of the things you wanna know,
how much you can strip it
back to its bare bones, and
how we can get again the most bang for
our buck out of it.
So how to approach upfront research,
right?
So considering the constraints
that we're presuming we're working
under around time and budget,
it's important to have a clear plan of how
to address any initial
research you wanna do, right?
And it is a reasonable question to say,
well,
why can't I just skip upfront research
entirely and just get going, right?
That'd be super lean, and
I said earlier that you don't even
know what the questions you
wanna ask when you start.
So there is an argument to be made or
maybe you could skip it and
just get going and
then do bits as you go along.
I actually, I can understand that and
I've kind of tried that a few times,
but I've missed doing at
least something upfront.
And I think there's kind
of a few reasons for that,
first of all is without user research,
there can be a lot of assumptions and
misunderstandings that cause chaos later.
Especially if you've got a group
of people working on something,
it's a bit different if it's just you,
cuz you're all agreeing on the same thing,
you are the decision maker etc.
You know what you don't know and
all of the rest of it, but
once you start working in
the team it can cause confusion.
If you don't have some kind
of agreed understanding
in terms of any assumptions or
constraints that you're working within.
The second is it can
lead to disagreements,
different stakeholders can envisage
a very different thing, right?
Even something which you
think we'd all agree on,
we're gonna have a carousel
on the homepage, okay?
All of us will have a slightly different
view of what that carousel will be,
how it will work, what it will do,
how it will behave on mobile,
all of those kinds of things.
So it's very easy for our understanding
to diverse one another, but
when you hear the phrase we're gonna
have a carousel on the home page,
you think everybody would agree on it,
right?
And they won't cause issues, so
it's quite important I think to do
atleast some kind of upfront research and
understanding.
So that there is an agreed
understanding where to go and
maybe Carousel that's probably
not a good example, but
certainly around who you're
trying to reach, right?
Agreeing on audiences is agreeing on what
those audiences what a need is a big one.
And then the final one is often going
into it without any context can
cause some real problems
leading to poor solutions.
So in particular, oftentimes an app or
a website whatever is part
of a broader journey, right?
The user has done something before they've
arrived on the website or use the app and
they'll do something after to it.
And knowing that context and what's going
on around the project is quite important
in order to ensure that the solution
you deliver is worthwhile.
So all of that is to say it's worth
doing a bit of user research upfront,
it doesn't need to be massive, so
what's the minimum we think we
could get away with here, right?
If we really strip it back,
what do we need to know before we start?
Well, the first thing is
who's your audience, right?
Having a clear picture of
who you're designing for
what you're creating for
is crucial to success.
And not just for
you to have a clear picture but
all of the stakeholders in the project,
absolutely crucial.
Second thing we really need
to know is what do they need,
what does this audience need?
What are they trying to achieve and
how are they gonna go about achieving it,
right?
Then the other thing we need to know
is what's the overall experience
at least to some extent,
what brought somebody to this point.
And what will help them progress to
the next step in their journey, and
that one's often an overlooked
one to be honest with you.
We focus so blinkered in on
the project that we're working on that
we tend to forget what comes before and
after.
And then the other thing
that I'm always looking for
is where are they encountering friction?
So they're gonna be achieving this thing,
whatever they want to achieve in some way,
either with the existing version of
the website or through another mechanism.
So where are the pain points,
where are things going wrong?
We kinda need to understand that if we're
gonna try and fix it for them, right?
But we can do all of that by
keeping it really lightweight,
that doesn't need to involve
weeks of work, right?
And I always try and
make my discovery phases proportional
to the project as a whole, right?
So if you're creating
a single landing page and
you've got a no a day to do it.
My discovery [LAUGH] phase might be
an hour at the beginning of the day or
probably even less than that.
If I'm doing a multimillion pound project,
then I'll probably put a bit of effort
into the discovery phase upfront and
make sure I'm well prepared going in.
So I normally look at about 10% of
the overall of all project value,
normally if I can get away with it, but
if I can only get away with less then
I'll do less, it's as simple as that.
You can achieve a huge amount
just by consolidating what
other existing research and
information is available, right?
Like I was saying earlier, there's
often documentation knocking around,
there's often existing user
research knocking around,
grabbing all of that and hoovering it up.
I do a lot of these days cuz I'm lazy,
of uploading PowerPoint
presentations and PDFs and
stuff to something like Claude,
which is really good at
analyzing documents.
And ask it to summarize them for me and
I ask it questions about based on that,
so I don't have to pour through
a 300 slide deck [LAUGH] etc.
So I cheat quite majorly, but
it means that I can consolidate
a lot of information very quickly,
sometimes just a single
workshop is enough, right?
So, if you work on smaller
projects that's absolutely fine,
then just do a kick-off workshop and
ask some of these questions and
dive into some of these
issues in that workshop.
Try and make sure there's people that have
got answers to those fundamental questions
we were talking about in the last section.
And that's often you can supplement any
information you've got when you were
looking at existing research and you can
get the additional answers you need there.
So for example, sometimes I'll
run a workshop where we'll create
a customer journey map or
your personas or things like that and
again, I'll cover those
things in more detail later.
And then sometimes if there's nothing
that stands out that I need to know at
the beginning,
there's nothing stopping me doing more
research later as questions emerge.
Again, don't feel you have to do
this stuff just because that's what
some article you read
somewhere tells you to.
And that applies to what I'm
telling you as well by the way,
just pick and choose what is relevant for
you out of all this, cuz every situation,
every project's different.
So, I mean, one of the big things
is identifying your audience,
and so this is one that I do really
spend a little bit of time on,
getting very clear in my head upfront.
And the reason is you can't really serve
everybody equally and this is the big
mistake, if you try to appeal to everybody
you end up appealing to nobody, okay?
And here's a great example of this
that I was working on recently, I was
working with the University of Florida
in this case with the HR team there.
And they have a website, and they were
trying to present information about
health plans and all this kind of stuff.
We don't have things
like that in the UK but
apparently it's important over
here to have a health plan.
So they were trying to present
all of this information and
they were trying to present it
to everybody at the same time.
So you had all these different audiences
with different needs all accessing
the same page.
So there were existing employees that
were probably primarily interested in
updating their health plan.
There were new employees that just wanted
to know what they were gonna get and
in particular how to register for it.
There were HR managers that were
trying to help other people with
their employee health plans.
And then there were people joining
the company that wanted to know what their
health plan was gonna be if they joined.
All on one page and there was so
many different audiences all fighting for
attention.
So really having a clear picture
of who your audiences are, and
most importantly how to prioritize those
audiences is something that I try and
flush out at the beginning of a project.
Because prioritization in
particular can be really tricky,
everybody will disagree over this, right?
And so people just avoid coming
to these conclusions, right?
And then you don't know who
you're working with, well,
we have to appeal to everybody.
Yeah all right, fine, but of all those
people who do we appeal to most, right?
I believe in designing for
somebody alienating nobody,
that's the phrase that I use, okay?
So how do we go about
prioritizing our audiences and
I do spend a little bit of time projects
doing this because I know it will
come back to bite me horribly if I don't.
Well, I kind of use different
characteristics, first of all,
I use business alignment.
So prioritize groups directly
contributing to key metrics within
the organization, so the first
question I will ask is what's your
primary metric that you're
trying to move here?
Is it revenue market share,
whatever, and I say, okay,
which of your audience's
most help with that?
So don't ask people to prioritize, right?
No outright, I instead ask very specific
questions that are yes no answers,
because if you ask people to
put things in priority order,
then politics get involved, right?
But if you just ask direct questions with
factual answers, you kind of avoid that,
so that's the first one I do,
second one is user impact, right?
And I look at groups whose needs if met,
would significantly
enhance the overall user satisfaction and
engagement, right?
So I say okay,
which groups have got needs they're not
being met currently, and
if we fix the problem would be
really beneficial in terms
of overall satisfaction?
So these tend to be the most vocal groups,
the largest groups,
the groups are the biggest issues, right?
And so I get people to brainstorm
those kinds of lists out of people.
Then I talk about needs
prioritising user groups for
the most acute pain points some of
them having the biggest difficulties.
Especially if these difficulties
are acting as a barrier for
whatever the project's goal is so
I get them to list a few of those as well.
Also look at things like growth potential,
so I say which is there a market or
a group of users that
you're looking to grow?
You want more business from those people,
right?
And then I ask about
regulatory requirements,
is there a particular group that
you need to meet the needs of for
example, people with with disabilities or
veterans or whoever else.
And then finally,
I consider feasibility, right?
The practical aspects of reaching and
engaging with each audience group.
So I kind of discuss all of these
things with the client, and
with the stakeholders and
then I go away and prioritize, right?
And I tend not to tell anybody that
I've prioritized in that way, because
the minute I present back a prioritized
list everybody starts arguing about it.
And that's the project stalled for
two weeks [LAUGH] while
they debate about this.
But I then work on the presumption
that this is the order
we're looking on based
on the the data we have.
It's a bit of a kind of touchy-feely
process, there's not hard and
fast rules with it.
But having it clear at least in your mind
who the priority audiences are will make
your life lots easier, yeah, go for it.
>> Can you apply this to
the previous example?
>> The previous example being.
>> The project you were working
on at the University of Florida?
>> Yeah, so that was a good one,
so can I apply it?
Probably not very well,
to be honest with you, what came out
of that is that there really wasn't
a strong priority in that situation.
So employee retention was very important,
so in other words,
keeping existing employees happy and
by extension them having good
managerial support was a part of that.
So that's the important audience bringing
on new staff members it was very important
as well because they were under-resourced
quite heavily as an institution.
So all the audiences in that case,
it was very hard to prioritize,
so what we did is we ended up
creating four separate sites.
So we actually segmented the audience and
go, we can't serve all of these
audiences on a single page,
they've all got very different needs.
So actually we need four health
plan pages for example, one for
each of the audiences, and that's how
we had to resolve it in that situation.
So unfortunately that example
doesn't prove everything I've just
talked about here.
But actually it's quite nice that you
asked the question because it kind of
shows sometimes you have
to improvise [LAUGH] and
sometimes you have to
find a different way.
Other times it does kind of shake
itself out, so I do a lot of work with
the universities and student recruitment
is always a huge challenge things for
a lot of universities.
But then certain types of students
are a lot more valuable than others,
so they tend to prefer postgraduate
students to undergraduate students.
They tend to prefer international students
because they get paid more intuition,
right?
And so you can tease all of this out
through conversations with them and
ended up with a pretty good idea
of what the priority order is,
even if they can't come out and
say it in black and white.
>> So there would be business
alignment you're talking about.
>> Yeah, so that that would be
heavily business alignment in
that particular case.
But also to be honest with
international students,
it's also user impact, user need,
and growth potential as well.
Because there's normally
a big growth potential for
getting more international students,
they have a big impact on the institution.
And also they have profound
needs because they've got
to learn all this stuff about
being in another country, etc.
So really, they come out very
highly from using these criteria.